>> Sarah Drasner: There's
this thing called Draggable,
that you can use with GreenSock.
So Draggable is really easy to work with.
It's a plugin that we mentioned before
in those code pen safe plugins.
So it's a device enabled for touch screen.
You can impose bounce.
So you can either have the bounds
be like this div of a container, or
you can say, top left width and height,
and kind of impose bounds that way.
You can have momentum,
if you have the ThrowPropsPlugin as well.
You can do hit test to see
if elements hit each other.
If you ever want to make a game or
something, you can use it that way.
It honors transform origin,
which is really cool,
a lot of other Draggable things don't.
It still works on transformed elements,
you can lock an axis,
it's GPU accelerated and
request animation frame driven.
And really, all you need to make
it work Is this Draggable.create.
So if I have a Mr.
Potato Head, I can kind of move,
okay, I'm gonna make myself here,
I don't have a mustache.
I'm gonna put this eyes on there,
and I'm like, generally,
kind of smiley, and then now I have
brown hair, but before I had blond hair.
So I'll just put both.
And a hat, I'll put that up there, okay?
So I could also decide I needed contacts,
and put blue eyes in there.
So you could kinda play around with it,
it's not actually that much
code to make this work.
I'm just like, grab everything in there.
They each have to be separate, right,
because I want them to move separately.
So I'm like, go get all of them,
and Draggable.create them, and
then make them fun to play with for
people who are immature, like me.
[LAUGH] And there's a bunch of
nerds on CodePen that do these
creative coding weekends and challenges,
and there was a pastel dots weekend.
So I made these little guys, and really,
I could've made them hit testable and
things like that, but
I kind of liked when they, you know,
landed on each other, and
went over each other.
And again, code is super simple.
I'm staggering back and forth.
I'm just basically saying,
repeat negative one.
This part I didn't mention before.
Yo-yo true will make it go back and
forth, if it's repeated.
So I'm just saying, do this and then do
this, and then do this and then do this.
And then Draggable.create all of them and
then we're done, and
we have this pastel dots.
So there's also call back, so you don't
just have to work, like if you wanna,
you don't have to just play with hit test,
you could work with all sorts of stuff.
You could work with onPress,
onDragStart, onDragEnd, on Release.
You could really make
a game with Draggable.
So this refers to the Draggable
instance itself, so
you don't have to wonder
what this is referring to.
Have you ever heard that joke that's like,
every time I work with
JavaScript I wanna say this is bullshit,
but I don't remember what this refers to.
[LAUGH] So this is, that's kind of
nice that you know what this is.
So it also dispatches events, so
you can do at event listener, and
that kind of stuff.
>> Sarah Drasner: It's loading, loading.
This is one of GreenSock's pens,
but I really like it.
It shows how you can have droppable logic.
So with hit test, you can kind of see,
but one thing about this is, watch,
it's not actually happening until 50% or
more across.
Which is really great, because when you're
working with elements inside of the dom,
the dom will always see everything
inside of it as a box, and
we're going to dive into that in
more detail a little bit later on.
But if you have a star or something
that's pointy, it will look like it's
not hitting each other until
a little while, even though it is.
So sometimes you have to compensate for
what you see with your eye,
is different from what the dorm
actually thinks is going on.
And there is also this new thing
that is called Snap Point,
so you can throw these around and
they'll like kind of come back.
That's pretty cool.
Other possibilities for
game development, if you want.
And, of course, we have a Draggable
to create a timeline interaction.
So I basically created a Draggable
thing with this gear, and
I set it to 360, not 100.
And then I plotted that to
the progress of the timeline.
And so then, you can steer a ship,
and all sorts of stuff with it.
And then Play is really what you would
think, it just restarts the timeline.
That's just kind of a fairly
normal interaction.
So here we're setting all of
those to visibility: visible.
We make the entire animation first, and
then once we have access to that master,
I say Draggable.create,
bounds from 0 to 360, and
onDrag master.progress
this.rotation over 360, cool.
We can also do interpolation
with style bindings.
There's this Pen.
This is done with Vue and SVG.
So basically I'm changing the coordinates,
and I'm tracking the coordinates, and
using those inline in this inline style
to change the perspective origin.
If you don't know what perspective origin
is, it's a really cool thing to check out.
So I have in the instance,
I start with zero.
You know, x at zero, y at zero, and
then I change it bound to eclient x, and
then I change that,
based on the perspective origin.
So we can also do things like
this cute little Wall-E.
I think he makes noises.
[SOUND] Chrome made this
major change recently,
where you can't play audio unless
the user interacts with the site.
So a bunch of my pens broke this morning.
[LAUGH] So if you're just automatically
playing audio, it won't let you.
You have to trigger the audio.
So I think there's another sound
that's not happening right now, but
the one that I trigger,
[SOUND] [LAUGH] Happen.
So basically Wall-E has
this repeated thing,
where he kind of looks around,
and he kind of blinks and stuff,
because regular things in regular
life don't just sit there, still.
And then, basically, for this animation.
[SOUND] For this animation,
I have his arms reaching out, so
I basically made the animation,
with his arms reaching out.
And then I pause it, and
then I scrub that animation,
as you scrub from here
to here in the client.
And then when I get past
that certain point, [SOUND],
I flip him with the scale
negative one on the x-axis.
And so he looks over here instead,
and he stops moving his arms.
>> Sarah Drasner: So basically,
this is mouse move coordinates.
There's a lot more stuff
going on than that,
but this is kind of where the magic
happens, where I have this progress, and
I have the coordinates,
but I keep it paused.
Cuz I don't want the animation
to play from that point,
I want it to stay paused, and
for us to scrub the progress.
If you don't have it paused, and
this is something I ran into,
it will keep trying to play, and
then it gets this stuttery thing.
I'm like, what is going on?
So you need to chain that
pause with the progress.